Ask yourself this question. These NFL
guys, when you when you see pictures of
them in high school, they look like
they're 25 years old because they're so
muscular when they're in high school.
Well, why doesn't that happen to
[Music]
everybody? This is a a beginner's guide
to building muscle and getting fit. I
think a lot of the videos out there are
more more aimed at people who have some
more experience. And I think if you're
fresh out of the gate, if you're young
or you just haven't done this yet,
there's a lot of things you need to
learn about yourself. But if nobody's
telling you what you need to learn and
what you need to keep track of, you can
waste a lot of time. I know I did. I
wasted years doing workouts that did
absolutely nothing. And I tried to
change them and those newer workouts did
absolutely nothing. And I think most of
the advice that's out there is aimed at
or has been shown to work for a lot of
professional athletes, maybe
professional bodybuilders. And unless
you build muscle very easily, you have
nothing in common with those people. Not
a thing. Therefore, don't follow their
advice. When I was when I was in high
school, I remember everybody wanted to
do like the Dorian Yates program or they
wanted to follow what Arnold did. And I
remember thinking, well, if you don't
have Arnold's genetics, then how do you
know what he did is going to work for
you? It probably won't. And here's an
even more stark example. A lot of people
who have paid attention when they were
younger to athletes as they all and you
all developed through like let's say
high school. I want you to think back
when you were in high school. There was
probably one or two guys who freshman
year went into the weight room, started
doing some stuff. They didn't know what
they were doing. They probably had, if
they had any coaching, it was probably
bad coaching. But the guys who end up in
the NFL are typically identified
somewhere between 12 and 14 years old.
And then their parents get really
serious, might send them to a camp.
school administrators realize, oh, this
is the star of the football team, so
let's make sure this this kid doesn't
get any trouble. So, they get sort of
extra supervision because everybody
knows they're going to move on to
greatness. Now, ask yourself this
question. These NFL guys, when you you
see pictures of them in high school,
they look like they're 25 years old
because they're so muscular when they're
in high school. Well, why doesn't that
happen to everybody? Because in high
school, lots of people are going into
the weight room. In fact, like for for
males, it's almost like everybody that
goes to high school runs through the
weight room at least a couple times to
see if they can get any results out of
it. And of course, most of us get
nothing. So, I want to focus on if
you're one of those people that seems to
get nothing or get very little. If you
don't look like an NFL player after
training for a couple years, it's not
going to happen for you doing what
you've been doing. You need to really
immerse yourself in your program and be
measuring. You want to be weighing
yourself and you want to be checking
your body fat. Now, of course, checking
your body fat, there's a lot of
different ways to do that. All of them
are sort of bad, but you'll know if
you're getting the real measure is if
you're getting stronger because there's
no such thing as a bigger muscle that
got weaker or stayed the same. If it's
getting if it's getting stronger, it's
also getting bigger. That is the hands
down truth. And there's a study that
demonstrated that by doing MRIs on
pectorals and accurately determining
what an
individual's one rep maximum is for the
bench press. that will be in the details
of the YouTube video. So, when we have a
situation where you're new and you're
experimenting, start off with a standard
weightlifting program. You know, the
ACSM has a hypertrophy program. If you
just Google that, you'll you'll find
what they recommend and see over the
course of a couple weeks, are you
getting stronger? Now, you don't need to
necessarily add weight. Progressive
overload is adding repetitions also. So,
that's the best way to do it. If you're
doing 12 repetitions one time and you do
14 repetitions the next time, as long as
you maintain exactly the same cadence,
that's important because what happens is
sometimes when they people first start
out, they're using this kind of pace and
then three or four weeks later, they're
a little more comfortable with the
movement. So, they're being more
explosive. So, you can actually do more
reps and and perform less work because
you're holding the weight for less time.
This is why people say time under
tension is really important. It is
important. I would say time under
variable tension is more important, but
I'll get to that later. So, when you're
doing this, you got to track your
strength. You got to make sure that
you're getting stronger with every
workout or even every other workout cuz
not every day you're better. You're
like, you might have had a lousy night's
sleep. You might have an allergic
reaction to something in the air. So,
you want to have a couple of samples of
data before you end up drawing a
conclusion. Now, these standard
weightlifting programs, it's really just
a test. Are you getting stronger? And
and you need to keep on testing because
the moment you're not getting stronger,
you need to try and determine why. If
you have variation in the program with a
lot of people, they'll just sort of
haphazardly switch exercises. You don't
really want to do that. In fact, all
research on sort of confusing the muscle
that is not true. There is an American
College of Sports Medicine position
paper on how progressive overload with
the same multi- joint exercises. So
multi- joint meaning there's two joints
involved like bench presses, you know,
the shoulder and the elbow as I'm
pushing away. A single joint exercise
would be like a bicep curl. So you want
to focus on multi-jint. You don't need
any
variance of exercises beyond those to
really know where you're going. Now,
once you're on a good path, you can add
some specifics, but in the beginning,
just test. You want to do these multi-
joint exercises because chances are
they're going to show you what you need
to know. As soon as you stop getting
stronger, you'll stop building muscle
mass. And that's the moment where you
need to decide, is this a genetic
problem? Is this a nutrition problem?
Often it's a nutrition problem. Is it a
hormone problem? Depending on your age,
you might want to get your homeworks
checked because you need to do that
through a physician. Don't try and do
that on your own cuz you won't know what
you're looking at. But if you have a
hormone deficiency, you're probably not
going to make progress very quickly, if
at all. If you aren't getting one gram
per pound of body weight, you're
probably not going to make any progress.
Those those things are common, but
always the most common one is you're
just not adapting to the exercise past
beginner gains. So, what'll happen is
maybe the first couple weeks you'll gain
something. And for most people, the
first couple of weeks they start li
lifting weights, they let's say they put
on some size in their arms and their
chest and they got quite a bit stronger
and they're really excited and then for
the rest of their lives they're trying
to capture that magic again and it never
ever
happens. And there's a statistic that
was put out by lifehack.com in 2024.
When somebody starts a fitness program,
90% of people will quit within 90 days.
Now, ask yourself, do they quit because
they got great results? No, they quit
because they got no results. So, they're
getting no results. And this is this is
where, and I don't know if it's 90%, and
then there's 5% more people that just
continue to go and accomplish nothing
because when I would go to gyms years
ago, I don't anymore. workout right
here. When I would go to gyms, I would
see people year after year looking
exactly the same, lifting exactly the
same weight for exactly the same number
of repetitions. And yeah, sometimes they
have a spotter and they be like, I'm
going to grow now. No, no, they never
did. So, you don't want to get into that
mode of spinning your wheels. Now, when
you do get to the point where your
progress slows down or stops beyond g
beginner gains, you're definitely on the
right channel because the next video
you're going to want to watch is about
variable resistance and that will bust
through any plateau. I've never met a
human being that did not continue to
grow muscle in I don't want to say
perpetuity because you can't just keep
growing muscle forever, but you can get
to your genetic potential and hold a lot
of
muscle. So much so that the average
person in just about every case will end
up looking like a professional athlete.
And these are all people who are hard
gators, meaning they got beginner gains
or not. and they were lifting weights
and then years went by where they'd made
no progress. And as soon as they
switched to variable resistance, that
was the difference that enables a much
greater level of fatigue to happen in a
much smaller amount of sets. Because
what you're really doing when you work
out is you want to give the muscle
enough
stimulus, not damage. Damage gives you
the opposite. You want to give the
muscle enough stimulus so that the
central nervous system clearly sees, oh,
we don't have enough muscle tissue here.
We're going to have to grow more muscle
tissue. Now, there's two types of
growth, sarcoplasmic and myophibro. I'll
get into those in another video, but
you're either doing that or you're not.
And when you're not, the approach is
variable resistance. And you will begin
to grow again. And like I said, never
met a person it didn't work for. And I
hardly meet many people outside of my
professional work cuz I do see a lot of
professional athletes. The regular
people I meet, almost everybody says,
"Yeah, I've been lifting weights for a
long time and yeah, I don't know why
it's not working, but I'm mixing up the
program." And I and I try and bring them
back. Like, think about high school.
Think about when that one guy in your
high school ended up, you know, he
lifted for a summer between, let's say,
sophomore and junior year, came back
with 30 pounds of muscle and you did the
same thing and nothing happened. So,
there's a genetic difference and this is
the answer. This is how you break that
plateau forever and you keep growing to
your genetic potential. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights. We've got the answer
for you.